---
title: "Our recent work on entanglement of topologically ordered systems has been published in Phys. Rev. A"
excerpt: "In this work, we investigate the nature of the general N-partite information and quantum correlation of a topologically ordered ground state."
permalink: /2112.02253/
categories:
  - publication
tags:
  - gapped liquids
  - entanglement
  - TEE
  - topology
  - graph theory
header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/posts/top_ee.jpg
    caption: "[Source](https://news.mit.edu/2019/ultra-quantum-matter-uqm-research-given-8m-boost-0529)"

---

{% include insert_publication_info.html %}

---

It is well known that the topological entanglement entropy $$S_{topo}$$ of a topologically ordered ground state in 2 spatial dimensions can be captured efficiently by measuring the tripartite quantum information ($$I^{3}$$) of a specific annular arrangement of three subsystems. However, the nature of the general N-partite information ($$I^{N}$$) and quantum correlation of a topologically ordered ground state remains unknown. In this work, we study such $$I^N$$ measure and its nontrivial dependence on the arrangement of $$N$$ subsystems. For the collection of subsystems (CSS) forming a closed annular structure, the $$I^{N}$$ measure ($$N\geq 3$$) is a topological invariant equal to the product of $$S_{topo}$$ and the Euler characteristic of the CSS embedded on a planar manifold, $$\|I^{N}\|=\chi S_{topo}$$. 

Importantly, we establish that $$I^{N}$$ is robust against several deformations of the annular CSS, such as the addition of holes within individual subsystems and handles between nearest-neighbour subsystems.
While the addition of a handle between further neighbour subsystems causes $$I^{N}$$ to vanish, the multipartite information measures of the two smaller annular CSS emergent from this deformation again yield the same topological invariant. For a general CSS with multiple holes ($$n_{h}>1$$), we find that the sum of the distinct,  multipartite informations measured on the annular CSS around those holes is given by the product of $$S_{topo}$$, $$\chi$$ and $$n_{h}$$, 
<br><br>
$$\sum^{n_{h}}_{\mu_{i}=1}|I^{N_{\mu_{i}}}_{\mu_{i}}| = n_{h}\chi S_{topo}~.$$
<br><br>
This constrains the concomitant measurement of several multipartite informations on any complicated CSS. The $$N^{th}$$ order irreducible quantum correlations for an annular CSS of $$N$$ subsystems is also found to be bounded from above by $$\|I^{N}\|$$, which shows the presence of correlations among subsystems arranged in the form of closed loops of all sizes. Thus, our results offer important insight into the nature of the many-particle entanglement and correlations within a topologically ordered state of matter.
The entanglement between the impurity and a cloud electron, as well as between any two cloud electrons, is found to increase under flow towards the singlet ground state at the strong-coupling fixed point. 

Both the number diagonal and off-diagonal correlations within the conduction cloud are also found to increase as the impurity is screened under the flow, and the latter are found to be responsible for the macroscopic entanglement of the Kondo-singlet ground state. The URG flow enables an analytic computation of the phase shifts suffered by the conduction electrons at the strong-coupling fixed point. This reveals an orthogonality catastrophe between the local-moment and strong-coupling ground states and is related to a change in the Luttinger volume of the conduction bath under the crossover to strong coupling. Our results offer fresh insight into the nature of the emergent many-particle entanglement within the Kondo cloud and pave the way for further investigations in more exotic contexts such as the fixed point of the overscreened multichannel Kondo problem.
